# Ix Language Design

*Why design a new language when so many already exist?*

This is the question that I ask myself everyday while I develop Ix.
This question might demoralise others, but not me. I view this
question as the spark necessary for making Ix a revolutionary
programming language that will change the world.

As of now I'm developing Ix because most modern languages are over
complicated and harm developer productivity because of their endless
resource consumption. It is not surprising that almost everyone
complains about slow compilations, memory usage, etc.

*Ix challenges all industrial languages in this regard.*

I believe that compilations can be fast (for development builds), and
developers should not have to buy expensive machines to code. It is a
critical mission objective of Ix to ensure that developers can use
advanced tools such as LSPs, linters, formatters, etc. even if their
development machine only has moderate resources.

I believe that it should be possible to work on code-bases with 1
Million lines of code while using less than 100 Mega Bytes of RAM with
basic features such as LSPs, linters, etc. For the sake of managing
expectations I should state that I'm primarily concerned about basic
features of LSPs such as `go-to-definition`, `auto-completion`,
`local-symbol-rename`. I believe these three features are most
important for providing a good developer experience for everyone. If
more advanced features are required then the developer needs to allow
usage of more resources. However even if more resources are required
our design should be optimised to minimise resource consumption.

In technical terms the resource consumption should grow as O(N), where
N is the number of modules used/imported within any file. For example,
If a developer only uses a Json parser module within a single file,
and is only working within that single file, the memory consumed
should only be for importing the symbols of the Json module, and no
other external module. Even the symbols we do import, should be
lightweight, so that they do not consume excessive resources.

Similarly I believe that compilations should be lightning fast (for
development builds), and should be incremental in nature, so
re-compilation should also be extremely fast. For final optimised
builds we obviously need to spend more time and compute resources, and
that is okay.

to be continued ...
